子贡南游于楚，反于晋，过汉阴，见一丈人方将为圃畦，凿隧而入井，抱瓮而出灌，搰搰然用力甚多而见功寡。
子贡曰：‘有械于此，一日浸百畦，用力甚寡而见功多，夫子不欲乎？’为圃者仰而视之曰：‘奈何？’
曰：‘凿木为机，后重前轻，挈水若抽，数如佚汤，其名为槔。’
为圃者忿然作色而笑曰：‘吾闻之吾师，有机械者必有机事，有机事者必有机心。机心存于胸中则纯白不备。纯白不备则神生不定，神生不定者，道之所不载也。吾非不知，羞而不为也。’

One day, Confucius' disciple Zigong returned to the state of Jin after traveling to the southern state of Chu. 
While passing by the south bank of the Han River, he came across an old man tending to a vegetable garden. 
After planting the vegetables, the old man tied a clay pot to a rope, lowered it into a well, waited for the pot to fill with water, and then pulled it up to water the vegetables. 
Zigong noticed that this method was labor-intensive and inefficient.

Approaching the old man, Zigong said, "There is a water-drawing device that can irrigate hundreds of acres of vegetable fields in a day, with minimal effort and great efficiency. Would you like to use it?"

The old man raised his head, chuckled, and with a touch of scorn in his voice, said, "What kind of device is that?" 
Zigong replied, "It's a wooden contraption known as a 'juexiao.' The back is heavy, and the front is light. 
Drawing water with it is as easy as a person pulling water from a well, but the flow is much faster."

The old man continued, "My teacher told me that those who use machines are always looking for shortcuts and that those who engage in such things have a cunning heart. 
Such a cunning heart is not in harmony with a pure and simple nature. People without a pure and simple nature are certainly unsettled in mind, and those with unsettled minds cannot embrace the great Dao. 
I am aware of water-drawing devices, but I am ashamed to use them."

Hearing these words, Zigong felt deeply humiliated and hung his head in silence. After a while, the old man asked, "What do you do for a living?" Zigong replied, "I am a student of Confucius."

The old man, with a disdainful expression, said, "You people compare yourselves to sages, act arrogantly, but others do not follow your ways. 
If you were to abandon your self-importance and discard your form, you might come closer to the Dao! If you cannot cultivate your own character, how can you govern the world? 
Go away and don't interfere with my work!"

Zigong, feeling ashamed and uneasy, walked away with his head down. 
It took him 30 miles of walking before he regained his composure. 
When his disciples asked him about the encounter, he sighed and said, "I thought there was only one person in the world worthy of being called a sage - my teacher. 
I didn't know there were people like that old man who cultivates vegetables. 
My teacher always taught us to act appropriately, seek efficiency in our efforts, and achieve great results with minimal effort - that was the way of the sage. 
But now I see it may not be so. Those who possess the virtue of the Dao have a complete character, a sound body, a fulfilled spirit, and that is the way of the sage."

Later, Zigong returned to the state of Lu and shared his encounter with the vegetable-growing old man with Confucius. 
Confucius said, "He practices the Dao of the Huanxu Clan. He only knows this one Dao and is oblivious to all others. 
He focuses on cultivating his inner self while forgetting about worldly matters. People like him have a pure and clear heart, seeking to return to the natural way. Why wouldn't you be amazed?"
